In God we trust. It says on U.S. dollar bills. However, according to the actual attitude
of the people, she did not rather say, in money we trust. However, trusting in money or
riches will lead to disappointment. Proverbs 11, 28 says, one trusting in riches will
fail. As Jehovah's Witnesses, we say, in Jehovah we trust. Therefore, we will not fail. There's
many reasons to trust Jehovah. We are all impressed by Jehovah's works, aren't we? This includes
nature. Aren't we impressed when we look at majestic mountains, when we admire the beauty
of flowers? There were so many different flowers in the world. Which one do you like best? Man
can make artificial flowers, but not real ones that reproduce. Man can make a beautiful jewelry
or other works of art. However, man cannot produce or make a single stem of grass. Not to speak
of flowers or trees. Should reflection on this not make us humble? Man cannot create any living
thing, but Jehovah can and did. Jesus commanded, or in connection with Matthew 6, 29, and he said
also, in this verse, take a lesson from the lilies of the field, how they grow, they do not
toil, they do not spin, but I tell you that not even Solomon in all his glory was arrayed
as one of these. As Jehovah is the Almighty and he created nature and man. He did not need
to create nature and us in order for him to be happy. He existed before he started to
create for an unknown length of time, as we understand time. Since when does Jehovah exist? He
always existed. How can we understand this? Suppose there was a time when Jehovah did not exist
yet. Then nothing would exist now. Why? Because nothing can come from nothing. The fact that we
exist is proof that Jehovah always existed is that simple. Before Jehovah started to create,
he existed all alone, but he did not feel lonely, did he? He does not depend on others
or on things to feel happy. The Bible says, 1 Timothy 110, he is the happy God.
Jehovah exists from time indefinite to time indefinite and has complete knowledge of the
universe and history. Psalm 90 verse 1 and 2 says, oh Jehovah, from everlasting to everlasting, you
are God. Jehovah created the universe, the earth and man. He desired to let others share intelligent
life and self-awareness of love. It is not that he needed other creatures to feel happy
or he didn't also need material things to feel happy. He was happy since past eternity before
creation. How loving that he created mankind so that we can enjoy life and friendship with him.
And what an expression of his almightyness, his wisdom and love. It impresses on our mind
and heart how great Jehovah is. When we encounter challenges in our everyday lives,
meditating on Jehovah will help us to endure challenges and difficulties of all sorts
and to trust him. You soon to be gladuates will find this to be true when you are confronted
with problems in the future. If you experience problems, then what? Pray to Jehovah. His
ability to hear prayers is mind-boggling. Is it not so that when we pray, we have the feeling
that Jehovah at that moment has nothing else in mind or to do than just listen to us.
But he can listen to tens of thousands of prayers in hundreds of languages all at the same time.
This includes prayers which are not presented audibly, but silent prayers also spoken
in our heart and our mind. How awesome. This really strengthens our trust and faith in him,
doesn't it? The universe also that Jehovah created strengthens our trust in him.
We feel really small and insignificant when we think that the universe got started about
as scientists say 18 to 20 billion years ago. Let us consider a few facts or
from the connection with the universe that expands, comments that were made about galaxies that
move into empty space, empty space where no galaxies or stars yet, even with the newest telescope,
scientists have not reached the border of the physical universe behind which there is nothing,
just empty space. It is mind-boggling to meditate on the universe. Looking at the starry heaven at
night, have you ever wondered how far out into space you are actually peering or how many stars you
can see with your naked eye? In Psalm 8, verse 3 and 4, David wrote about looking at the stars,
he said, when I see your heavens, the works of your fingers, the moon and the stars that you have
prepared, what is mortal man that you keep in mind and the son of man that you take care of him?
It really can make us feel humble to meditate on the universe. How far into the universe could
David and also we peer? A distance of some 600,000 light years according to a watchtower in 1983.
It is estimated that our Milky Way alone contains 200 to 400 billion stars.
The stars move with fantastic speed. The Encyclopedia says, quote, the speed of our solar system
circulating in our galaxies is about 220 kilometers per second. And as scientists found out at the speed
of 568,000 miles per hour, end of quote, it is estimated that a light beam takes about 100,000
years from one end of our Milky Way to the other end. If we look at our Milky Way from outside,
our Milky Way and from a different angle, we would see it like a disk. But we see it as a way
due to the location of our solar system and the outskirts of the Milky Way.
In the book Guide to the Galaxy published in 1994, it says that it takes the solar system
240 million years to complete the grand circuit around the galaxy. This speed is an absolute speed
end of quote. Astronomers estimated that there are approximately 100 billion to one trillion
galaxies in the universe. But how many stars? It is estimated between 10,
60,000 and 1,000,000 if it means something to you. You may wonder what is 1,000,000,000? Well,
it is, as we can see, illustrated one with 24 zeros. That is, if you take 1 billion and you multiply
that by one quadrillion next to picture shows, you get 1.7 billion. Can you follow? It's hard for me.
The Watchtower of March 1, 1991 raised the question, quote, where is the source of all the energy
represented by the 100,000 million stars in our galaxy, and it's just one galaxy, as well as
the more than 1,000 million galaxies that make up the visible universe? To quote from 1991,
Watchtower March 1. The Bible encourages us to meditate on the universe. It strengthens our trust
into hover. The Bible says, raise your eyes high up and see, who has created these things? It's the
one who is bringing forth the army of them even by number, all of whom he calls even by name.
Due to the abundance of dynamic energy, he also being vigorous in power, not one of them is missing.
Well, who is that one? Of course, Jehovah. Why is it good to talk about the universe
since it is so hard to fathom its size? The universe proves that Jehovah is all mighty,
and this inspires us to trust in his prophecies about putting an end to wickedness,
putting an end to the devil, and creating a paradise on earth for all obedient mankind.
It's good to reflect on what David wrote about Jehovah in Psalm 139.
In verses 1 to 5, David is confident of Jehovah's interest in him.
Jehovah wants but to hear from us. We can share our innermost thoughts. We can tell Jehovah anything
without being embarrassed. So let's look at the scripture, Psalm 139.
From verse 1.
You have searched through me and you know me. You know when I sit down and when I rise up,
you discern my thoughts from afar. You observe me when I travel and when I lay down.
You are familiar with all my ways. There's not a word on my tongue but look, Jehovah, you already know
it well. Behind and before me, you surround me and you lay your hand upon me. So that's a very
impressive text, isn't it? In verses 6 to 13, David tried to comprehend Jehovah's greatness.
It was too much for him. And so in verse 6, he goes on to say, such knowledge is beyond my
comprehension. It is too high for me to reach. Where can I escape from your spirit and where can I
run away from your face? If I were to ascend to heaven, you would be there. And if I were to
make my bed in the grave, look, you would be there. If I would fly away with the wings of the dawn
to reside by the most remote sea, even there your hand would lead me and your right hand would
take hold of me. If I say, surely darkness will conceal me, then the night around me would become
light. Even the darkness would not be too dark for you. But night would be as bright as the day.
Darkness is the same as light for you. For you produced my kidneys, you kept me screened off
in my mother's womb. David is amazed that Jehovah's wisdom in creating a human body. He gives
all credit to Jehovah for his extraordinary gift. Verse 14 continues to say, I praise you
because in an awe-inspiring way, I'm wonderfully made. Your works are wonderful and I know this
very well. My bones were not hidden from you when I was made in secret, when I was woven in the
depth of the earth, figuratively. Your eyes even saw me as an embryo. All its parts were written
in your book regarding the days when they were formed before any of them existed.
So let's read two more verses and see the effect it had on David and his complete trust and
confidence in his Heavenly Father. Verse 17. So to me, how precious your thoughts are, oh God,
how vast is the sum of them? If I try to count them, they outnumber the grains of sand.
When I awake, I'm still with you. So we agree with David that we are created in a wonderful way,
very impressive. Well, think of as an example of our ability to use language and thought.
We are also unique in our profound curiosity about ourselves, aren't we?
Different from all animals, we are unique in our ability to contemplate God's thoughts.
This is one way we are made in God's image. Think of our eyes, a marvel, we have binocular vision,
able to distinguish the relationship between different objects. Think of our ears, a marvel,
we hear in stereo. Now let's talk about the universe in our brain.
The book The Physics Fact Book edited by Glenn Ellert says in the quote, weighing around three
pounds, the brain contains nearly 100 billion neurons. What's that? Neuf cells.
100 billion neurons. If you don't believe me, you can verify count yourself here.
The brain is the most complicated organ in the universe. One reference works as about these
nerve cells that they are as many as the stars in the Milky Way galaxy. It also has trillions
of supportive cells called glia. Each neuron is connected to other neurons by as many as 40,000
individual connections called synopsis between the cells. The brain has more connections than
our stars in the universe. End of quote. No question. We are wonderfully made and all the praise
belongs to Jehovah. Being aware that Jehovah created this fantastic universe, the earth and man,
does this not help us to become more confident in our trust in Jehovah to be able and willing to
help us when we face problems or challenges. Should we face persecution or abandon on our work
then what? Trust in Jehovah. But Jehovah is not only all-powerful. He is also love,
personified. Jehovah is very interested in you soon to be glial graduates. Yes, he's interested
in all of us. He loves us. He gave his beloved son Jesus Christ as a sacrifice for our sins and
for the purpose of helping us to become perfect and enjoy everlasting friendship with him.
Jehovah had full trust and confidence in his son's faithfulness. His love moves us to love.
Love is the perfect bond of unions as Colossians 3, 4 team. Yes, it is the most powerful bond in
the universe. Perfect love bonding the son and the father together unbreakably. For like
reasons God trusts his organization of servants, knowing that love would hold most of them
immovably under test. Psalm 56 verse 11 says, in God we have put our trust. Psalm 3 verse 5 encourages
us. Trust in Jehovah with all your heart. Jesus is our best example. When he was nailed to the
torture stake his enemies mockingly said, he has put his trust in God. Let him now rescue him if
he wants him for he said, I'm God's son. On the other hand Jehovah trusts us as well.
How encouraging. He trusts his organization of servants knowing that love would hold most of them
or most of us immovably to him. Immovably under test and that his organization of
creatures would never stop doing so. He trusted Abraham. He trusted other patriarchs.
He trusts the anointed ones today. He trusts the members of the great crowd with an earthly hope.
Yes, Jehovah trusts you and we trust that you all will continue to trust Jehovah forever.
Yes, in God we trust.